cookbooks/ark/README.md, before:

# <a name="title"></a> chef-ark [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/opscode-cookbooks/ark.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/opscode-cookbooks/ark)

Overview
========

This cookbook provides `ark`, a resource for managing software
archives. It manages the fetch-unpack-configure-build-install process
common to installing software from source, or from binary
distributions that are not fully fledged OS packages.

This is a modified verion of Infochimp's awesome
[install_from cookbook](http://github.com/infochimps-cookbooks/install_from).
It has been heavily refactored and extended to meet different use
cases.

Given a simple project archive available at a url:

    ark 'pig' do
      url 'http://apache.org/pig/pig-0.8.0.tar.gz'
    end

The provider will:

* fetch it to to `/var/cache/chef/`
* unpack it to the default path  (`/usr/local/pig-0.8.0`)
* create a symlink for `:home_dir` (`/usr/local/pig`) pointing to path
* add specified binary commands to the enviroment `PATH` variable

By default, the ark will not run again if the `:path` is not empty.
Ark provides many actions to accommodate different use cases, such as
`:dump`, `:cherry_pick`, `:put`, and `:install_with_make`.

At this time ark only handles files available from URLs. It does not
handle local files.

Requirements
============

This cookbook requires Chef 11 for the provider, as it uses the
`use_inline_resources` method.

More about
[use_inline_resources](http://docs.opscode.com/lwrp_common_inline_compile.html)
in the Chef documentation.

Should work on common Unix/Linux systems with typical userland
utilities like tar, gzip, etc. May require the installation of build
tools for compiling from source, but that installation is outside the
scope of this cookbook.

Attributes
==========

Customize the attributes to suit site specific conventions and
defaults.

* `node['ark']['apache_mirror']` - if the URL is an apache mirror,
  use the attribute as the default.
* `node['ark']['prefix_root']` - default base location if the
  `prefix_root` is not passed into the resource.
* `node['ark']['prefix_bin']` - default binary location if the
  `prefix_bin` is not passed into the resource.
* `node['ark']['prefix_home']` - default home location if the
  `prefix_home` is not passed into the resource.

Resources/Providers
===================

* `ark` - does the extract/build/configure dance

Actions
-------

- `:install`: extracts the file and creates a 'friendly' symbolic link
  to the extracted directory path
- `:configure`: configure ahead of the install action
- `:install_with_make`: extracts the archive to a path, runs `make`,
  and `make install`. It does _not_ run the configure step at this
  time
- `:dump`: strips all directories from the archive and dumps the
  contained files into a specified path
- `:cherry_pick`: extract a specified file from an archive and places
  in specified path
- `:put`: extract the archive to a specified path, does not create any
  symbolic links
- `:remove`: removes the extracted directory and related symlink #TODO
- `:setup_py_build`: runs the command "python setup.py build" in the
  extracted directory
- `:setup_py_install`: runs the comand "python setup.py install" in
  the extracted directory

## :cherry_pick

Extract a specified file from an archive and places in specified path.

### Relevant Attribute Parameters for :cherry_pick

- `path`: directory to place file in.
- `creates`: specific file to cherry-pick.

## :dump

Strips all directories from the archive and dumps the contained files
into a specified path.

NOTE: This currently only works for zip archives

### Attribute Parameters for :dump

- `path`: path to dump files to.
- `mode`: file mode for `app_home`, as an integer.
  - Example: `0775`
- `creates`: if you are appending files to a given directory, ark
  needs a condition to test whether the file has already been
  extracted. You can specify with creates, a file whose existence
  indicates the ark has previously been extracted and does not need to
  be extracted again.

## :put

Extract the archive to a specified path, does not create any symbolic
links.

### Attribute Parameters for :put

- `path`: path to extract to.
  - Default: `/usr/local`
- `has_binaries`: array of binary commands to symlink into
  `/usr/local/bin/`, you must specify the relative path.
  - Example: `[ 'bin/java', 'bin/javaws' ]`
- `append_env_path`: boolean, if true, append the `./bin` directory of
  the extracted directory to the global `PATH` variable for all users.

Attribute Parameters
--------------------

- `name`: name of the package, defaults to the resource name.
- `url`: url for tarball, `.tar.gz`, `.bin` (oracle-specific), `.war`,
  and `.zip` currently supported. Also supports special syntax
  `:name:version:apache_mirror:` that will auto-magically construct
  download url from the apache mirrors site.
- `version`: software version, defaults to `1`.
- `checksum`: sha256 checksum, used for security .
- `mode`: file mode for `app_home`, is an integer.
- `prefix_root`: default `prefix_root`, for use with `:install*`
  actions.
- `prefix_home`: default directory prefix for a friendly symlink to
  the path.
  - Example: `/usr/local/maven` -> `/usr/local/maven-2.2.1`
- `prefix_bin`: default directory to place a symlink to a binary
  command.
  - Example: `/opt/bin/mvn` -> `/opt/maven-2.2.1/bin/mvn`, where the
    `prefix_bin` is `/opt/bin`
- `path`: path to extract the ark to. The `:install*` actions
  overwrite any user-provided values for `:path`.
  - Default: `/usr/local/<name>-<version>` for the `:install`,
    `:install_with_make` actions
- `home_dir`: symbolic link to the path `:prefix_root/:name-:version`,
  does not apply to `:dump`, `:put`, or `:cherry_pick` actions.
  - Default: `:prefix_root/:name`
- `has_binaries`: array of binary commands to symlink into
  `/usr/local/bin/`, you must specify the relative path.
  - Example: `[ 'bin/java', 'bin/javaws' ]`
- `append_env_path`: boolean, similar to `has_binaries` but less
  granular. If true, append the `./bin` directory of the extracted
  directory to. the `PATH` environment variable for all users, by
  placing a file in `/etc/profile.d/`. The commands are symbolically
  linked into `/usr/bin/*`. This option provides more granularity than
  the boolean option.
  - Example: `mvn`, `java`, `javac`, etc.
- `environment`: hash of environment variables to pass to invoked
  shell commands like `tar`, `unzip`, `configure`, and `make`.
- `strip_leading_dir`: by default, ark strips the leading directory
  from an archive, which is the default for both `unzip` and `tar`
  commands
- `autoconf_opts`: an array of command line options for use with the
  GNU `autoconf` script.
  - Example: `[ '--include=/opt/local/include', '--force' ]`
- `make_opts`: an array of command line options for use with `make`.
  - Example: `[ '--warn-undefined-variables', '--load-average=2' ]`
- `owner`: owner of extracted directory.
  - Default: `root`

### Examples

This example copies `ivy.tar.gz` to
`/var/cache/chef/ivy-2.2.0.tar.gz`, unpacks its contents to
`/usr/local/ivy-2.2.0/` -- stripping the leading directory, and
symlinks `/usr/local/ivy` to `/usr/local/ivy-2.2.0`

     # install Apache Ivy dependency resolution tool
     ark "ivy" do
       url 'http://someurl.example.com/ivy.tar.gz'
       version '2.2.0'
       checksum '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
       action :install
     end

This example copies `jdk-7u2-linux-x64.tar.gz` to
`/var/cache/chef/jdk-7.2.tar.gz`, unpacks its contents to
`/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2/` -- stripping the leading directory, symlinks
`/usr/local/jvm/default` to `/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2`, and adds
`/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2/bin/` to the global `PATH` for all users. The
user 'foobar' is the owner of the `/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2` directory:

     ark 'jdk' do
       url 'http://download.example.com/jdk-7u2-linux-x64.tar.gz'
       version '7.2'
       path "/usr/local/jvm/"
       home_dir "/usr/local/jvm/default"
       checksum  '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
       append_env_path true
       owner 'foobar'
     end

Install Apache Ivy dependency resolution tool in <path>/resource_name in this case
`/usr/local/ivy`, do not symlink, and strip any leading directory if one
exists in the tarball:

     ark "ivy" do
        url 'http://someurl.example.com/ivy.tar.gz'
        checksum '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
        action :put
     end

Install Apache Ivy dependency resolution tool in /home/foobar/ivy, strip any
leading directory if one exists:

     ark "ivy" do
       path "/home/foobar
       url 'http://someurl.example.com/ivy.tar.gz'
       checksum '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
       action :put
     end

 Strip all directories and dump files into path specified by the path attribute.
 You must specify the `creates` attribute in order to keep the extraction from
 running every time. The directory path will be created if it doesn't already exist:

     ark "my_jars" do
       url  "http://example.com/bunch_of_jars.zip"
       path "/usr/local/tomcat/lib"
       creates "mysql.jar"
       owner "tomcat"
       action :dump
     end

Extract specific files from a tarball (currently only handles one named file):

     ark 'mysql-connector-java' do
       url 'http://oracle.com/mysql-connector.zip'
       creates 'mysql-connector-java-5.0.8-bin.jar'
       path '/usr/local/tomcat/lib'
       action :cherry_pick
     end

Build and install haproxy and use alternave values for `prefix_root`, `prefix_home`, and `prefix_bin`:

     ark "haproxy" do
       url  "http://haproxy.1wt.eu/download/1.5/src/snapshot/haproxy-ss-20120403.tar.gz"
       version "1.5"
       checksum 'ba0424bf7d23b3a607ee24bbb855bb0ea347d7ffde0bec0cb12a89623cbaf911'
       make_opts [ 'TARGET=linux26' ]
       prefix_root '/opt'
       prefix_home '/opt'
       prefix_bin  '/opt/bin'
       action :install_with_make
     end

You can also pass multiple actions to ark and supply the file extension in case
the file extension can not be determined by the URL:

     ark "test_autogen" do
       url 'https://github.com/zeromq/libzmq/tarball/master'
       extension "tar.gz"
       action [ :configure, :install_with_make ]
     end

License and Author
==================

- Author: Philip (flip) Kromer - Infochimps, Inc(<coders@infochimps.com>)
- Author: Bryan W. Berry (<bryan.berry@gmail.com>)
- Author: Denis Barishev (<denis.barishev@gmail.com>)
- Author: Sean OMeara (<someara@opscode.com>)
- Copyright: 2011, Philip (flip) Kromer - Infochimps, Inc
- Copyright: 2012, Bryan W. Berry
- Copyright: 2012, Denis Barishev
- Copyright: 2013, Opscode, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Ran into the same issue with sass; updating all cookbooks

cookbooks/ark/README.md, after:

# <a name="title"></a> chef-ark [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/burtlo/ark.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/burtlo/ark)

Overview
========

This cookbook provides `ark`, a resource for managing software
archives. It manages the fetch-unpack-configure-build-install process
common to installing software from source, or from binary
distributions that are not fully fledged OS packages.

This is a modified verion of Infochimp's awesome
[install_from cookbook](http://github.com/infochimps-cookbooks/install_from).
It has been heavily refactored and extended to meet different use
cases.

Given a simple project archive available at a url:

    ark 'pig' do
      url 'http://apache.org/pig/pig-0.8.0.tar.gz'
    end

The provider will:

* fetch it to to `/var/cache/chef/`
* unpack it to the default path  (`/usr/local/pig-0.8.0`)
* create a symlink for `:home_dir` (`/usr/local/pig`) pointing to path
* add specified binary commands to the enviroment `PATH` variable

By default, the ark will not run again if the `:path` is not empty.
Ark provides many actions to accommodate different use cases, such as
`:dump`, `:cherry_pick`, `:put`, and `:install_with_make`.

At this time ark only handles files available from URLs using the
[remote_file](http://docs.chef.io/resource_remote_file.html) provider.
It does handle local files using the `file://` protocol.

Requirements
============

This cookbook requires Chef 11 for the provider, as it uses the
`use_inline_resources` method.

More about
[use_inline_resources](http://docs.chef.io/lwrp_common_inline_compile.html)
in the Chef documentation.

Should work on common Unix/Linux systems with typical userland
utilities like tar, gzip, etc. May require the installation of build
tools for compiling from source, but that installation is outside the
scope of this cookbook.

Attributes
==========

Customize the attributes to suit site specific conventions and
defaults.

* `node['ark']['apache_mirror']` - if the URL is an apache mirror,
  use the attribute as the default.
* `node['ark']['prefix_root']` - default base location if the
  `prefix_root` is not passed into the resource.
* `node['ark']['prefix_bin']` - default binary location if the
  `prefix_bin` is not passed into the resource.
* `node['ark']['prefix_home']` - default home location if the
  `prefix_home` is not passed into the resource.
* `node['ark']['win_install_dir']` - directory where the files will
  be put on windows
* `node['ark']['package_dependencies']` - prerequisite system
  packages that need to be installed to support ark.

Resources/Providers
===================

* `ark` - does the extract/build/configure dance

Actions
-------

- `:install`: extracts the file and creates a 'friendly' symbolic link
  to the extracted directory path
- `:configure`: configure ahead of the install action
- `:install_with_make`: extracts the archive to a path, runs `make`,
  and `make install`. It does _not_ run the configure step at this
  time
- `:dump`: strips all directories from the archive and dumps the
  contained files into a specified path
- `:cherry_pick`: extract a specified file from an archive and places
  in specified path
- `:put`: extract the archive to a specified path, does not create any
  symbolic links
- `:remove`: removes the extracted directory and related symlink #TODO
- `:setup_py`: runs the command "python setup.py" in the extracted directory
- `:setup_py_build`: runs the command "python setup.py build" in the
  extracted directory
- `:setup_py_install`: runs the comand "python setup.py install" in
  the extracted directory

## :cherry_pick

Extract a specified file from an archive and places in specified path.

### Relevant Attribute Parameters for :cherry_pick

- `path`: directory to place file in.
- `creates`: specific file to cherry-pick.

## :dump

Strips all directories from the archive and dumps the contained files
into a specified path.

NOTE: This currently only works for zip archives

### Attribute Parameters for :dump

- `path`: path to dump files to.
- `mode`: file mode for `app_home`, as an integer.
  - Example: `0775`
- `creates`: if you are appending files to a given directory, ark
  needs a condition to test whether the file has already been
  extracted. You can specify with creates, a file whose existence
  indicates the ark has previously been extracted and does not need to
  be extracted again.

## :put

Extract the archive to a specified path, does not create any symbolic
links.

### Attribute Parameters for :put

- `path`: path to extract to.
  - Default: `/usr/local`
- `append_env_path`: boolean, if true, append the `./bin` directory of
  the extracted directory to the global `PATH` variable for all users.

Attribute Parameters
--------------------

- `name`: name of the package, defaults to the resource name.
- `url`: url for tarball, `.tar.gz`, `.bin` (oracle-specific), `.war`,
  and `.zip` currently supported. Also supports special syntax
  `:name:version:apache_mirror:` that will auto-magically construct
  download url from the apache mirrors site.
- `version`: software version, defaults to `1`.
- `mode`: file mode for `app_home`, is an integer.
- `prefix_root`: default `prefix_root`, for use with `:install*`
  actions.
- `prefix_home`: default directory prefix for a friendly symlink to
  the path.
  - Example: `/usr/local/maven` -> `/usr/local/maven-2.2.1`
- `prefix_bin`: default directory to place a symlink to a binary
  command.
  - Example: `/opt/bin/mvn` -> `/opt/maven-2.2.1/bin/mvn`, where the
    `prefix_bin` is `/opt/bin`
- `path`: path to extract the ark to. The `:install*` actions
  overwrite any user-provided values for `:path`.
  - Default: `/usr/local/<name>-<version>` for the `:install`,
    `:install_with_make` actions
- `home_dir`: symbolic link to the path `:prefix_root/:name-:version`,
  does not apply to `:dump`, `:put`, or `:cherry_pick` actions.
  - Default: `:prefix_root/:name`
- `has_binaries`: array of binary commands to symlink into
  `/usr/local/bin/`, you must specify the relative path.
  - Example: `[ 'bin/java', 'bin/javaws' ]`
- `append_env_path`: boolean, similar to `has_binaries` but less
  granular. If true, append the `./bin` directory of the extracted
  directory to. the `PATH` environment variable for all users, by
  placing a file in `/etc/profile.d/`. The commands are symbolically
  linked into `/usr/bin/*`. This option provides more granularity than
  the boolean option.
  - Example: `mvn`, `java`, `javac`, etc.
- `environment`: hash of environment variables to pass to invoked
  shell commands like `tar`, `unzip`, `configure`, and `make`.
- `strip_components`: number of components in path to strip when extracting archive.
  With default value of `1`, ark strips the leading directory from an archive,
  which is the default for both `unzip` and `tar` commands.
- `autoconf_opts`: an array of command line options for use with the
  GNU `autoconf` script.
  - Example: `[ '--include=/opt/local/include', '--force' ]`
- `make_opts`: an array of command line options for use with `make`.
  - Example: `[ '--warn-undefined-variables', '--load-average=2' ]`
- `owner`: owner of extracted directory.
  - Default: `root`

### Examples

This example copies `ivy.tar.gz` to
`/var/cache/chef/ivy-2.2.0.tar.gz`, unpacks its contents to
`/usr/local/ivy-2.2.0/` -- stripping the leading directory, and
symlinks `/usr/local/ivy` to `/usr/local/ivy-2.2.0`

     # install Apache Ivy dependency resolution tool
     ark "ivy" do
       url 'http://someurl.example.com/ivy.tar.gz'
       version '2.2.0'
       checksum '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
       action :install
     end

This example copies `jdk-7u2-linux-x64.tar.gz` to
`/var/cache/chef/jdk-7.2.tar.gz`, unpacks its contents to
`/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2/` -- stripping the leading directory, symlinks
`/usr/local/jvm/default` to `/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2`, and adds
`/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2/bin/` to the global `PATH` for all users. The
user 'foobar' is the owner of the `/usr/local/jvm/jdk-7.2` directory:

     ark 'jdk' do
       url 'http://download.example.com/jdk-7u2-linux-x64.tar.gz'
       version '7.2'
       path "/usr/local/jvm/"
       home_dir "/usr/local/jvm/default"
       checksum  '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
       append_env_path true
       owner 'foobar'
     end

Install Apache Ivy dependency resolution tool in <path>/resource_name in this case
`/usr/local/ivy`, do not symlink, and strip any leading directory if one
exists in the tarball:

     ark "ivy" do
        url 'http://someurl.example.com/ivy.tar.gz'
        checksum '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
        action :put
     end

Install Apache Ivy dependency resolution tool in /home/foobar/ivy, strip any
leading directory if one exists:

     ark "ivy" do
       path "/home/foobar"
       url 'http://someurl.example.com/ivy.tar.gz'
       checksum '89ba5fde0c596db388c3bbd265b63007a9cc3df3a8e6d79a46780c1a39408cb5'
       action :put
     end

 Strip all directories and dump files into path specified by the path attribute.
 You must specify the `creates` attribute in order to keep the extraction from
 running every time. The directory path will be created if it doesn't already exist:

     ark "my_jars" do
       url  "http://example.com/bunch_of_jars.zip"
       path "/usr/local/tomcat/lib"
       creates "mysql.jar"
       owner "tomcat"
       action :dump
     end

Extract specific files from a tarball (currently only handles one named file):

     ark 'mysql-connector-java' do
       url 'http://oracle.com/mysql-connector.zip'
       creates 'mysql-connector-java-5.0.8-bin.jar'
       path '/usr/local/tomcat/lib'
       action :cherry_pick
     end

Build and install haproxy and use alternave values for `prefix_root`, `prefix_home`, and `prefix_bin`:

     ark "haproxy" do
       url  "http://haproxy.1wt.eu/download/1.5/src/snapshot/haproxy-ss-20120403.tar.gz"
       version "1.5"
       checksum 'ba0424bf7d23b3a607ee24bbb855bb0ea347d7ffde0bec0cb12a89623cbaf911'
       make_opts [ 'TARGET=linux26' ]
       prefix_root '/opt'
       prefix_home '/opt'
       prefix_bin  '/opt/bin'
       action :install_with_make
     end

You can also pass multiple actions to ark and supply the file extension in case
the file extension can not be determined by the URL:

     ark "test_autogen" do
       url 'https://github.com/zeromq/libzmq/tarball/master'
       extension "tar.gz"
       action [ :configure, :install_with_make ]
     end

License and Author
==================

- Author: Philip (flip) Kromer - Infochimps, Inc(<coders@infochimps.com>)
- Author: Bryan W. Berry (<bryan.berry@gmail.com>)
- Author: Denis Barishev (<denis.barishev@gmail.com>)
- Author: Sean OMeara (<someara@chef.io>)
- Author: John Bellone (<jbellone@bloomberg.net>)
- Copyright: 2011, Philip (flip) Kromer - Infochimps, Inc
- Copyright: 2012, Bryan W. Berry
- Copyright: 2012, Denis Barishev
- Copyright: 2013, Chef Software, Inc
- Copyright: 2014, Bloomberg L.P.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
